---
layout: archive
title: "Para-Model Control"
permalink: /portfolio/
author_profile: true
---

<br>
<font color='blue'> <b>
PMC - A Para-Model Controller for nonlinear dynamical systems
</b> </font>

The Model-free Control approach, introduced by [[Fliess and Join in 2013]](https://polytechnique.hal.science/hal-00828135v2) has
been designed as a "robust" controller to overcome difficulties of tuning classical PID
controllers when the process to control is not ”well-modeled”. 

The proposed PMC controller is an alternative version that is also very easy to tune considering 
a minimal knowledge of the general behavior of the process to control (like the time-response, amplification gain...).

The main features of the Para-Model Controller :
- does not need any computation of the numerical derivatives of the controlled output of the process
- efficient tracking performances of (switched) nonlinear systems including uncertainties, derive of the model parameters, perturbations rejection...
- flexibility of the parameters of the controller
- very easy to implement in few lines of code


Consider a SISO process described as an unknown nonlinear dynamical system: 

$$ \left\{ \begin{array}{l}
\dot{x} = f(x,u) \\
y = g(x)
\end{array} \right. $$

where $$u$$ and $$y$$ are respectively the input and the output of the process.

The discretized Para-Model controller reads:

$$u_k = \Psi_k \, . \int_0^t K_i (y^\ast_{k} - y_{k}) \, d \, \tau$$

 
with $$\Psi_k = \Psi_{k-1} + {K_p} ( k_\alpha e^{-k_\beta . k} - y_{k})$$ that is a nonlinear series associated to the integration term.

where $$u_k$$ is the control output, $$y^\ast_{k}$$ is the output reference trajectory and
$$y_k$$ is the output of the controlled system. $$K_i, K_p, k_\alpha, k_\beta$$ are real positive tuning parameters.


To minimize the influence of the measurement noise, a single integral term appears and no output numerical derivative is needed,
which is very favorable in terms of minimizing the influence of measurement
noise. In fact, integration of the noisy output $$y_k$$ is only sensible to the noise
average. roughly speaking, there is a memory effect with the term $$\Psi_{k-1}$$ and a forgetting target
factor generated by the exponential function $$k_\alpha e^{-k_\beta . k}$$.

Tutorial package
------------

A fully documented Matlab (R) package can be [downloaded](../files/figures/PMC_package_Mar25.zip) that refer to some of the results presented in the [arXiv](http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.4707) paper (which presents the PMC algorithm).
Simply run the main script 'ParaModelControl_Tutorial' and all results are computed and the plots are saved.



Applications
------------

The proposed algorithm has been recently validated in Navier-Stokes-based aerodynamic simulation, 
in computational HIV epidemiology and in magnetics metrology through the highly nonlinear Epstein frame.

- L. Michel, <em> Model-free based pitch control of a wind turbine blade section in the OpenFAST environment - Some technical remarks </em>

- L. Michel, E. Guilmineau, C. Braud, F. Plestan and J.-P. Barbot. <em> Model- free based pitch control of a wind turbine blade section: aerodynamic simulation. European Control Conference 2024 </em>, Jun 2024, Stockholm, Sweden.

- L. Michel, C.J. Silva, D.F.M. Torres, <em> Model-free based control of a HIV/AIDS prevention model </em>, Mathematical Biosciences and Engineering, vol. 19, Issue 1, pp. 759-774, 2022.

- L. Michel, <em> Online learning of neural networks based on a model-free control algorithm </em>, arXiv:1905.02230, Sept. 2021.

- L. Michel, <em> Dynamical system-based robot reaching motions by para-model control approach - A preliminary study </em>, arXiv:1610.00630, Oct. 2016. 

- L. Michel, O. Ghibaudo, O. Messal, A. Kedous-Lebouc, C. Boudinet, F. Blache, A. Labonne, </em> Commande "sans modèle" pour l'asservissement numérique d'un banc de caractérisation magnétique </em>,2nd Electrical Engineering Symposium - SGE'16, Grenoble, France, Jun 2016.

- L. Michel, <em> A para-model agent for dynamical systems </em>, arXiv:1202.4707, (rev) Mar. 2018.

On-going work with neural-network closed-loop learning...

<br>
Other works related to the original Model-Free control approach:

- P. Hamon, L. Michel, F. Plestan, D. Chablat. <em> Model-free based control of a gripper actuated by pneumatic muscles </em>. Mechatronics, 2023, 95, pp.103053.

- P. Hamon, L. Michel, F. Plestan and D. Chablat, <em> Control of a gripper finger actuated by a pneumatic muscle: a new scheme based on model-free approach </em>, IFAC-PapersOnLine, Volume 55, Issue 27, 2022, pp 25-30.

- L. Michel, I. Neunaber, R. Mishra, C. Braud, F. Plestan, J.-P. Barbot, X. Boucher, C. Join, and M. Fliess, <em> Model-free control of the dynamic lift on a wind turbine blade section: experimental results </em>, 2022 J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 2265 032068.

- L. Michel, W. Michiels, X. Boucher, <em> Model-free control of microgrids </em>, 26th Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering - CCECE'13, May 2013.

- L. Michel, W. Michiels, X. Boucher, <em> Model-free control of nonlinear power converters </em>, 26th Canadian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering - CCECE'13, May 2013.

- L. Michel, <em> Variational and symplectic approach of the model-free control </em>, arXiv:1011.4237, Nov. 2010. 

- L. Michel, C. Join, M. Fliess, P. Sicard, A. Chériti, <em> Model-free control of dc/dc converters </em>, 12th Workshop on Control and Modeling for Power Electronics - COMPEL'10, pp. 1-8, 28-30 June 2010, Boulder, CO, USA.


Please feel free to contact me for any information. 


<!---
The proposed package, through an easy-to-use interface, oﬀers the possibility to
the user to test the control of any numerical dynamical model. Some examples
are given to illustrate the capabilities when controlling switched minimum and
non-minimum phase systems and a nonlinear switched physical system.
--->